README.markdown, before:

<style>h1{color:e3e3e3;}a{text-decoration:none; color:a0a0a0;}a:hover{color:black;}</style>

[blog](http://wikipedia.org/wiki/Blog "web log")-[org](http://orgmode.org "emacs org-mode")-[git](http://git-scm.com/ "open source, distributed, version controll")
================================================================================

Install the required gems

<pre>
sudo gem install sinatra haml activerecord
</pre>

Install blorgit

<pre>
git clone git://github.com/eschulte/blorgit.git
</pre>

Update the submodules of blorgit to provide file based persistence
([active\_file](http://github.com/eschulte/active_file/tree/master)),
org-mode interaction
([acts\_as\_org](http://github.com/eschulte/acts_as_org/tree/master)),
and themes
([blorgit\_themes](http://github.com/eschulte/blorgit_themes/tree/master))

<pre>
cd blorgit
git submodule init
git submodule update
</pre>

Create a blogs directory with the default configuration, and the
default minimal theme

<pre>
rake new
rake themes:default
</pre>

Start sinatra with

<pre>
ruby blorgit.rb
</pre>

View at [localhost:4567](http://localhost:4567)

If you're wondering where git comes in, initialize your new blogs
directory as a git repo, and post all future blogs, moderate comments
and commentability of blogs, and manage configuration through git.

<pre>
cd ./blogs
git init
git add .
git commit -a -m "initial commit"
</pre>

To change the location of the blogs directory, or for pointers on
deploying behind a web-server, see the run.ru rackup file.  To run
using the run.ru rackup file use a command like the following
(requires the <tt>thin</tt> gem)

<pre>
./run.ru -sthin -p4567
</pre>

Commit message:

updated README, made commentability globally configurable, and changed default recent shown from 0 (all) to 5

README.markdown, after:

<style>h1{color:e3e3e3;}a{text-decoration:none; color:a0a0a0;}a:hover{color:black;}</style>

[blog](http://wikipedia.org/wiki/Blog "web log")-[org](http://orgmode.org "emacs org-mode")-[git](http://git-scm.com/ "open source, distributed, version controll")
================================================================================

Install the required gems

<pre>
sudo gem install sinatra haml activerecord
</pre>

Install blorgit

<pre>
git clone git://github.com/eschulte/blorgit.git
</pre>

Update the submodules of blorgit to provide file based persistence
([active\_file](http://github.com/eschulte/active_file/tree/master)),
org-mode interaction
([acts\_as\_org](http://github.com/eschulte/acts_as_org/tree/master)),
and themes
([blorgit\_themes](http://github.com/eschulte/blorgit_themes/tree/master))

<pre>
cd blorgit
git submodule init
git submodule update
</pre>

Create a blogs directory with the default configuration, and the
default minimal theme (for a list of available themes run <tt>rake
themes</tt>)

<pre>
rake new
rake themes:default
</pre>

The configuration is controlled through a [YAML](http://www.yaml.org)
file located at .blorgit.yml in the base of your blogs directory.
Configuration variables can be used to control the title, index page,
stylesheet, the number of recent entries shown in the sidebar,
commentability, editability and optionally a password required for
posting edits, .  The default configuration is...

<pre>
--- 
title: Blorgit
index: index
style: stylesheet.css
recent: 5
commentable: true
editable: false
auth: 
- admin
- password
</pre>

Start sinatra with

<pre>
ruby blorgit.rb
</pre>

View at [localhost:4567](http://localhost:4567)

If you're wondering where git comes in, initialize your new blogs
directory as a git repo, and post all future blogs, moderate comments
and commentability of blogs, and manage configuration through git.

<pre>
cd ./blogs
git init
git add .
git commit -a -m "initial commit"
</pre>

To change the location of the blogs directory, or for pointers on
deploying behind a web-server, see the run.ru rackup file.  To run
using the run.ru rackup file use a command like the following
(requires the <tt>thin</tt> gem <tt>sudo gem install thin</tt>)

<pre>
./run.ru -sthin -p4567
</pre>
